We set up our applications such that we can submit this simple form here and send it to our firebase
server which we also set up or our firebase app,
the next step now is to do that, to actually send it. Now to send it,
I will grab this link here on firebase, my firebase project which is modeling to my personal project
which allows me to send data out there and then on Submit,
Well I now want to send it instead.
So here I will no longer log this to the console,
instead the goal is to send the data to firebase.
Now since we registered vue resource here on our global vue object here,
the one we imported from vue up here, since we did this every vue instance we create has access to http
through vue resource.
Therefore I can now call this and then $http,
now $http was added by vue resource,
it's not available by default but now it was added due to us implementing this plugin with the vue
use function.
So I can then access this http object here and on this object, I get a couple of different methods I
can call, basically one method for each http request type. So you could send a get request with the get method
or as we want to do it here, a post request with the post method, post because we want to send some data
to the server.
Now this method then as a first argument expects the URL where we want to send it like this,
that's the URL I just copied, though with firebase the special thing is sending it to this URL
won't do anything,
we have to specify a data node we want to create.
So in this database here, we want to create a special node let's say data, and then we have this data node
which holds our data,
so we therefore have to go to our URL and add data
and that still would not work,
firebase only allows requests which target .json resources.
So we have to simply add .json for firebase to handle this correctly,
the .json is mandatory, the name here,
data is up to you.
This will create such a data package or node on our server where
this will be stored or in our database
I should say. And with that, we set up the URL, though
we of course also need to send some data, don't we?
Now sending some data is very easy,
we simply need to supply a second argument which allows us to send the data or to set up the data
we want to send by default. Now which data do we want to send here?
Well we want to send our user
so let's try sending this user and let's see if that works.
This is how we generally set up a post request, for a get request,
the second argument here of course wouldn't be needed but I'll come back to this.
Now that will send the request, though we also might want to do something with the response, the vue
resource package uses the promise library or uses this promises approach.
So this will be a promise which means it's good for asynchronous action because it promises us to give
us back some data in the future and it can only promise us this in the future because today, it isn't there yet, reaching
out to a server is no synchronous task, it takes some time.
So therefore I can now add then, the then function we do have available on promises which will allow
me to add a function to be executed once this operation is done,
so once this request has been sent and once we did get a response back.
So here in this then function, I can use the response I get back and I use an ES6 function here with
the arrow and then I can handle it here,
so in this case here, I could simply say console log response to have a look at what we're actually
getting back.
Also important,
you can add the second argument here too on this then
function, that would be any error we get back.
So here we can simply also log
any error response we do get back.
Well and with that set up, let's see if this now works, I'll go back to my application,
open up the console to see any errors we might get
and then I'll send some test data here.
Let's hit submit and this looks good, we do get back a response which has some body where we do have
a name which is very cryptical,
I'll explain this in a second
and then we do have the status 200 and that looks all good.
Now we have a look in our firebase console in the database,
you see this new data node was created, data of course because that was the name I set up here in the URL
and if we have a look into this node, we see the same cryptical string and under this string,
we see email and username, the data
I submitted, also recognize that all the extra vuejs stuff vuejs created when we printed the object to
the console before wasn't sent here,
so that is really clever by vuejs here, it only sends our real object.
Now what is this cryptical string here though?
Well since we posted the data, it means we can submit the data over and over again, as you saw now, a
node, new node was added under data.
And that is what the string is for,
it's a unique ID and this ID is necessary because otherwise the data would be equal
and since we use post, we append new data to the existing one, we're not overwriting it,
we're appending it
and you can only append it if each resource has a unique identifier, otherwise there is no way to retrieve
it securely in the future.
This is what this strange string is
which we also get back in the response by firebase and that more importantly is how easy it is to send
a post request and to send it with your own data to your own URL and then as we see, handling the
response here in the first function or in the first fucntion you can pass to the then function, this
first callback.